# REval

Replication package for ICSE 2025 paper "Reasoning Runtime Behavior of a Program with LLM: How Far Are We?".

## Prerequisite

### Hardware Requirements

- For evaluating GPT-3.5/4, there are no special hardware requirements. 
- For evaluating open-source LLMs, the vLLM library requires capable NVIDIA/AMD GPUs. We use NVIDIA A800 GPU in our experiments. Detailed hardware requirements can be found at vLLM's official website: https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html

### Software Requirements

- OS: Linux
- Python: 3.8 - 3.11 (Conda environment is optional but recommended)
- Install the JSON processor `jq`.
- Install necessary Python libraries by running `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- Users without capable GPUs should run `pip install -r requirements-nogpu.txt`. In this case, they can only evaluate GPT models via OpenAI API.

Note: 
- We do not distribute open-source LLMs in this replication package due to license and file size issues. Users can download the model checkpoints on HuggingFace. 
- The vLLM library supports a variety of model architectures, but the latest models may not be supported. For details, please refer to https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/models/supported_models.html.

## Usage

Important files:

- The `data` folder contains our benchmark data: the adapted dataset (from HumanEval and ClassEval); the task inputs, generated by `taskgen.py`
- The `prompts` folder contains the prompt templates for four tasks and two prompt types. `prompt.py` reads the templates and then constructs concrete prompts during evaluation.
- The `model_list.txt` file lists the IDs and URLs of the open-source LLMs we use in the experiments.
- The entry of our framework is `evaluation.py`. Users can run with the command `python evaluation.py <args>`, and the usage of this command is as follows:

```
usage: evaluation.py [-h] [-i INPUT] [-o OUTPUT] [{config,run}]

Run evaluation for REval tasks

positional arguments:
  {config,run}          Command to run

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                        specify the configuration file to load
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        specify the configuration file to save
```

Basically, the users can create a config file with `python evaluation.py config` and run the evaluation using the config file with `python evaluation.py run`.

- The `start_server.sh` is a Bash script that reads an aforementioned config file and starts a local OpenAI-compatible API server (powered by the vLLM library).
- Check out `batch_run.py` if one wants to run the tasks concurrently (and repeat multiple times).

